File: /usr2/fs/misc/configs.txt  Version: 0.1  Date: 050125

      Support for Different Equipment Configurations with the FS

			      Ed Himwich

INTRODUCTION

The FS uses a simple, but in many cases sufficient, mechanism for
supporting different equipment configurations.  The basic idea is that
the various control files and SNAP procedure files that are used by
the FS can be set-up to be accessed through symbolic links.  The links
can be changed to point to the versions of the files that correspond
to the equipment and/or antenna and/or location in use.  Typically,
you would use this facility for the "*.ctl" control files and the
"rxg_files" subdirectory in "/usr2/control" and for the "*.prc" SNAP
procedure libraries in "/usr2/proc".

RECOMMENDATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS

It is recommended that multiple versions of a file be named with the
usual name, but with an additional ".type" suffix appended to the
name.  Obviously, it will probably be helpful if the additional
".type" suffix is mnemonic in some-way for the configuration it is
intended for.  As an example you might have "equip.ctl.s2" and
"equip.ctl.vlba" for different equip.ctl files for S2 and VLBA
equipment.  It is also recommended that you keep the different
versions of the files in the directory they would normally occupy,
e.g. "/usr2/control" for "*.ctl.*" files.

There is one exception to these recommendations.  This is for "rxg"
files because they are kept in a different sub-directory.  As of FS
9.7.6, they are nominally grouped together in the "rxg_files"
sub-directory of "/usr2/control".  This arrangement was designed to
complement the other features of changing configurations and to keep
multiple sets of "rxg" files from interferring with each other.  It is
recommended that each set of "rxg" files is placed in its own
sub-directory of "/usr2/control" and that each sub-directory is named
"rxg_files" with an additional ".type" appended, for example:
"rxg_files.lovell".  This approach also makes it fairly
straightforward to analyze data for different sets of "rxg" files with
changing which ones the FS is reading since GNPLT will allow the user
to select the directory for the "rxg" files.

These points are only recommendations except in the case of "*.prc"
SNAP procedure libraries.  For "*.prc", files, the recommendations
must be followed. The files MUST be named as normal procedure files
with an additional ".type" suffix after the ".prc".  In addition,
these files MUST be located in the "/usr2/proc" directory.

One general requirement is that for files that when you have multiple
versions of a file, you must not have a file with the actual
name. e.g. you mustn't have an "equip.ctl" if you intend to link to
different version of "equip.ctl" since "equip.ctl" itself must be the
symbolic link to the target version.

SCRIPTING

Eventually, the FS will include a utility to allow you to select which
files you want to use.  In the meantime, you can create scripts that
set-up the links for the files you want to use for different
configurations.  It is recommended that these scripts be placed in
"/usr2/oper/bin" (they must be made executable with "chmod a+x
..."). Here is an example of a script, called "s2_mode", Fairbanks
uses to select their S2 configuration.

  #!/bin/tcsh
  if (! -e /usr2/fs/bin/lognm) then
  echo "Can't find lognm program, is FS loaded?"
  exit -1
  endif
  lognm >& /dev/null
  if(! $status) then
  echo "Can't change mode when FS is running"
  exit -1
  endif
  cd /usr2/control
  ln -sfn equip.ctl.s2 equip.ctl
  ln -sfn rclad.ctl.s2 rclad.ctl
  cd /usr2/proc
  ln -sfn station.prc.s2 station.prc
  echo 'Now in S2 mode when FS is started'

This sample script includes a simple check to make sure that the FS is
not running when the change is attempt (this is done to reduce
possible confusion about which control files are actually in use).

It could include an additional safety feature: a check that the links
that are about to be over-written are in fact links, not normal files,
so that nothing will be lost when symbolic links are set-up.  However,
since this example script was set up by hand, it assumes that the
person who wrote the script knew what he was doing.

If a link were needed for an S2 version of the "rxg_files" directory,
the script would have a line:

  ln -sfn rxg_files.s2 rxg_files

 just before the "cd /usr2/proc" line. In this case, there must not
 already be a sub-directory "rxg_files" in "/usr2/control".
