File: /usr2/fs/misc/FSL8_Upgrade.txt  Version: 1.4  Date: 120104

		 Upgrading a prior FSL System to FSL8

		    Ed Himwich and Jonathan Quick

INTRODUCTION

This document attempts to describe the steps needed, primarily, to
upgrade a computer running a Field System Linux (FSLx, x=1, ..., 7)
distribution prior to FSL8 but also to install FSL8 from scratch as
new installation.

For the most standard systems being upgraded these instructions should
be sufficient.  The more a system differs from a standard system the
more likely that some important step will be missing.  However it is
likely that the more a system differs from the standard, the more
knowledgeable, and therefore able to handle discrepancies, the local
Field System "friend" would be.  The instructions try to anticipate
some places where additional steps and information may be needed for
non-standard systems.  It is assumed that non-standard systems will be
that way because additional packages and software have been added, not
because something has been removed.  Please note that in order to make
these instructions as foolproof as possible, they are written in a
general way that may not be the most efficient.  Other more expedient
methods may exist.

For systems being installed from scratch, these instructions should be
complete, but please note that the first paragraph at the start of
Step 2 in the PREPARATION sections includes some advice for this case
and Step 3 in that section can be omitted.

Systems with less than 3 GB (each) hard disks, 256 MB RAM, or ISA
peripheral cards are not supported by FSL8.  Stations with computers
that are not support by FSL8 should consider upgrading their computers
and/or installing an inexpensive firewall/router to protect their
older (now obsolete systems) from network attacks.

These directions are complete for upgrading from old distributions
FSL5, FSL6, and FSL7.  If you have an older system, they should still
be basically correct, but some details may be omitted.  Regardless of
what previous version you are upgrading, if you have problems or
questions, please contact Ed (Ed.Himwich@nasa.gov).

For reference, this history of FSL distributions is:

  FS Linux 1                       Slackware     Linux 1.2.x    1994
  FS Linux 2     "bo"              Debian 1.3.1  Linux 2.0.29   1997
  FS Linux 3     "hamm"            Debian 2.0    Linux 2.0.34   1998
                 "slink"           Debian 2.1    Linux 2.0.36   1999
  FS Linux 4     "potato"          Debian 2.2    Linux 2.2.18   2000
  FS Linux 5     "woody"           Debian 3.0    Linux 2.2.20   2002
                                                 Linux 2.4.18
  FS Linux 6     "sarge"           Debian 3.1    Linux 2.4.27   2005
  FS Linux 7     "etch"            Debian 4.0    Linux 2.6.18   2007
  FS Linux 8     "lenny"           Debian 5.0    Linux 2.6.26   2009

The remainder of this document is broken into four sections.  The
PREPARATION section describes information that you should collect that
will make the rest of the process easier.  This includes both system
parameters and *.tgz archives of critical files.  The INSTALLATION
section describes the actual installation of the FSL8, the fsadapt
sysadm utility, and FS to create a base standard system.  The
CUSTOMIZATION section points you to additional documentation for
completing the process of installing the system so that it includes
your local files and configuration.  The POST INSTALLATION section
describes the final clean-up after the installation and testing are
finished.

PREPARATION

The section covers steps that will help prepare you for the upgrade or
installation..

1. Obtain Debian 5.0.1 (or later) DVDs/CDs

   Information on how to obtain the Debian DVDs/CDs can be found at 

     http://www.debian.org/distrib/

   You can use DVDs or CDs.  Using DVDs has the advantage that fewer
   are required, however if they are much larger to transfer as files
   if downloaded for local burning.  What media you chose also effects
   how you will set-up /etc/apt/sources.list in step 4 of the Second
   Stage installation in fs8linux_DVD.txt.  A rough guide to the media
   to use is:

   A. Fast Internet connection: Get and use all 5 DVDs and put web
      references at top of sources.list.

   B. Slow Internet connection: Get and use all 5 DVDs and put web
      references at bottom of sources.list.

   C. For fewer lengthy DVD downloads use just DVD-1 in (A)-(B) above,
      but then you don't have local copy in case of Internet
      connection loss.

   D. For an even shorter, CD, download, use just CD-1 in (C) above

   E. No Internet connection: 5 DVDs

   F. Only a CD player (no DVD player): use CDs instead of DVDs in
      (A)-(E) above

2. Collect System Information

   In order to upgrade your system, you will need to know the
   following information.  For systems being upgraded, a suggestion
   for how to obtain the information is provided.  For systems being
   installed from scratch, the same basic information is required, but
   you will need to determine the information by other means including
   possibly from local experts.

   A. Collect network parameters if you have a network connection

      Hostname ___________________________
      more /etc/hostname <CR> or uname -n <CR>

      Domain   ___________________________
      hostname --domain <CR> or
      more /etc/resolv.conf <CR>, look for "search" line

      Network interface device  ________________________
      more /etc/network/interfaces <CR> and look at appropriate line

        IP address __________________________ 
        see above

        Netmask   ___________________________
        see above

        Broadcast address: ______________________
        see above

        Network Gateway ______________________________
        see above

      DNS servers   _______________________________
      more /etc/resolv.conf <CR>, look for "nameserver" lines

        (alternate older methods to find some of the information:
        route -n < CR > and look for "Iface" field in the line starting 0.0.0.0
 
        ifconfig eth0 < CR > (where "eth0" is network interface device
        from above) and look for "inet addr" field

        see above "ifconfig" output and look for "Mask" field

        see above "ifconfig" output and look for "Bcast" field
 
        route -n < CR > and look for the "Gateway" field in the line
        starting with 0.0.0.0
        )

   B. Other required hardware information:

      Serial Card Information ( mark appropriate box for latter use.)
       [ ] 4-port VSCom (ByteRunner) 400H
       [ ] 8-port VSCom (ByteRunner) 800H
       [ ] other ____________________________________
      examine card 

      Serial ports used by card on old system __________
        setserial -g /dev/ttyS*
      or FSL7 and later (logged-in as root):
        grep ttyS /var/log/dmesg
      and examine the output, usually 0-3 are
      on the motherboard, not on the serial card which are typically
      16-23 or 4-11 

   C. Additional information that may be helpful to know:

      nearest (in a network sense) Debian mirror server _____________________
      for example, see: http://www.debian.org/mirror/list

      Old system Linux version __________
      uname -r <CR>
        or
      cat /proc/version <CR>      

      Old system Debian version (if Debian) _________
      cat /etc/debian_version <CR>

      Video card ___________________
      more /proc/pci | grep -i vga <CR> 

      Mouse device _______________________________
      grep -i device /etc/gpm.conf or
      grep -i device /etc/X11/XF86Config<CR> or
      grep -i device /etc/X11/XF86Config-4<CR>
      grep -i device /etc/X11/xorg.conf<CR>

      Mouse type  _______________________________
      grep -i type /etc/gpm.conf or
      grep -i protocol /etc/X11/XF86Config<CR> or
      grep -i protocol /etc/X11/XF86Config-4<CR>
      grep -i protocol /etc/X11/xorg.conf<CR>

      CD/DVD device ______________________________
      ls -l /dev/cdrom < CR >

      Monitor parameters: modes: ___________________________________________
                          grep -i modes /etc/X11/XF86Config<CR> or
                          grep -i modes /etc/X11/XF86Config-4<CR> or
                          grep -i modes /etc/X11/xorg.conf

                          HorizSync _______________________________________
                          grep -i HorizSync /etc/X11/XF86Config<CR> or
                          grep -i HorizSync /etc/X11/XF86Config-4<CR> or
                          grep -i HorizSync /etc/X11/xorg.conf

                          VertRefresh ____________________________________
                          grep -i VertRefresh /etc/X11/XF86Config<CR> or
                          grep -i VertRefresh /etc/X11/XF86Config-4<CR> or
                          grep -i VertRefresh /etc/X11/xorg.conf

        or obtain video parameters from manual or WWW.

      Keyboard model _______________________
      grep -i xkbmodel /etc/X11/XF86Config<CR> or
      grep -i xkbmodel /etc/X11/XF86Config-4<CR> or
      grep -i xkbmodel /etc/X11/xorg.conf


      Network Card: ___________________________
      cat /var/log/dmesg | grep -C1 eth0 | head -2 <CR>
      use network interface device in place of eth0 if different

      Information in files that will be saved in step 3 when making
      the "etc.tgz" archive:

        NTP servers, usually in /etc/ntp.conf or /etc/init.d/xntp3
  
        SSH keys, usually in *key *_key.pub files in /etc/ssh

        Printers, usually in /etc/printcap or in /etc/cups/*,

        /etc/hosts file listed "hosts"

        /etc/hosts.deny and /etc/hosts.allow configuration

      Customizations of the oper and prog user directories. These will
      captured in step 3 below in "operprog.tgz" archive

      Additional Debian packages loaded beyond standard FSL packages
      Obtain from local experts

      Additional directory structures not normally found on FS
      computers.  Obtain from local experts and/or may be visible on
      /usr2 with names other than: control, log, sched, oper, proc,
      prog, fs*, and st*

3. Collect files to be transferred to the new system

   This step is only intended for systems that are being upgraded from
   a prior FSL distibution running the FS (systems being installed
   from scratch can omit this step).  It provides a method to collect
   the files that you will need to transfer to the new system.  It
   will also provide a back-up of critical files in case you only have
   one disk drive (which will be overwritten in the upgrade process).
   The following steps archive the standard files that are needed.  If
   you have other files that need to be preserved, you should make
   additional archives or include then in these.

   In the example steps below suggested *.tgz file names are shown.
   You many of course use your own names, but these names agree with
   those used in the FSL8_End_User.txt file which describes how to use
   them.  The example steps show the archives being created on the
   /tmp directory.  If the files are too big to fit, you will need to
   delete unneeded files from the partition that contains /tmp and/or
   find another place to create them, perhaps on /usr2, and/or you may
   need to be more judicious about which files you archive.  As
   "root":

     cd /
     tar czf /tmp/etc.tgz etc
     cd /usr2
     tar czf /tmp/usr2.tgz control log proc sched st*
     tar czf /tmp/operprog.tgz oper prog

   After creating the *.tgz file you should transfer them by network
   to another machine or write them to removable media such as a DVD,
   CD, or a USB drive.  If you only have one disk drive, you should
   examine the files transferred, or on the removable media, to verify
   they are complete since you will overwriting the operation disk
   when you upgrade.

INSTALLATION

This section outlines the detailed steps for the installation. Spaces
are included to check-off each step as it is completed.

1. Before beginning the installation procedure, you will need to
   determine how many and which disks to upgrade initially (i.e.,
   according to this INSTALLATION section).
   
   ___ If you have disks of different sizes, you should be sure to
       include the smallest disk as one of the disks that you upgrade
       initially.  This will assure that the RAID size will be correct
       for all the disks.  If your smallest disk is your current
       operational disk, you should perform a disk rotation and/or
       back-up (see for example backups2.pdf in the docs/ directory on
       the FS file servers for FSL5 and /usr2/fs/misc RAID.pdf for
       FSL6, older systems generally had only two disks) to make sure
       that one of your larger disks is up to date and use it as the
       "shelf" disk as described next.

   ___ If you have more than one disk, you should remove the current
       active operational disk (not your smallest disk, see above) and
       save it "on the shelf" in case you need to return to your old
       system or need to retrieve a file that was forgotten.

   ___ There are three cases:

       (A) Three or more disks available.  Insert two of your disks,
           including your smallest, but not including your current
           operational, disk.  If you have more than three disks, you
           can make a back-up of the old operational disk on one of
           the additional disks for safety, but this is not necessary.

       (B) Two disks available.  Insert your smallest, but not your
           current operational, disk.  In this case you should install
           FSL8 on only the one disk, instead of the normal two.  You
           will need to modify the DVD installation instructions to
           use one disk instead of two.  These changes are described
           in step 2 below.

       (C) One disk available.  This is similar to case (B) above,
           however, you will be unable to retain your current
           operational disk "on the shelf" as a backup in case of
           problems.  It is better to obtain more disks before
           continuing, but if you are unable to do this you can
           upgrade the single disk.  You should be careful to verify
           the *.tgz files are not corrupt and contain all the files
           you.  It would be prudent to make other more complete
           back-ups if that is reasonably easy to do.

2. Install FSL8 from Debian 5.0.1 (or later) DVDs (or CDs) using the
   instructions found at:

   ____  ftp://ftp.hartrao.ac.za/pub/fs8x/fs8linux_DVD.txt

   The information you collected in the preceding section should be
   useful in this process.  Do not turn off installation of the
   Desktop Environmentwhen that is offered unless you have a small
   disk.

   Your choice of Debian installation media will affect how you set-up
   /etc/apt/sources.list in step 4 of the Second Stage installation.
   Please see item #1 in the PREPARATION section of this document for
   more details.

   If you are using only one disk for the upgrade (cases (B) and (C)
   in step 1 above), you will need to modify the DVD installations
   slightly.  The four needed changes, listed by DVD installation
   stage (1 or 2) and steps (n) in a format of "stage#step", are:

   1#7 Omit setting up the second disk.

   1#9 Omit this step (configuring the second disk partitions).

   1#10 Set-up the MD devices as indicated, but you will select only
        the one disk device (/dev/hdaX or /dev/sdbX, X=1,5,6) for each
        MD device.  This works in spite of the on-screen instructions
        insisting that you must select two disk devices for each MD
        device.

   2#11 Omit this step (installing GRUB on the second disk)

3. Install gnomebaker IF you installed the Desktop Environment in step
   (2) as "root" on vt1 (<Ctrl><Alt><F1>):

   ____   apt-get install gnomebaker
   ____   apt-get clean

4. Install and run fsadapt as "root" (use current version in place
   of 8.0.0) on vt1 (<Ctrl><Alt><F1>):

   ____   cd /root
   ____   ncftpget ftp://ftp.hartrao.ac.za/pub/fs8x/fsadapt-8.0.0.tgz
   ____   tar xzvpf fsadapt-8.0.0.tgz
   ____   cd fsadapt
   ____   ./fsadapt
        (take all defaults in fsadapt, except:
   ____     on Window 1 set noident
   ____     on Window 2 unset updates
   ____     select appropriate serial configuration when prompted
   ____     on Window 3 set skip
   ____     on Window 4 set secure, then OK, then OK again

4b. Disable Avahi daemon
    ____    update-rc.d -f avahi-daemon remove
    ____    update-rc.d avahi-daemon stop 14 2 3 4 5 .
    ____    invoke-rc.d avahi-daemon stop

5. Configure sound card support

   ____ alsaconf, take all defaults     
       
6. Set oper and prog passwords, use strong passwords:

   ____ passwd oper
   ____ passwd prog

7. Install FS as "root: (use current version in place of 9.10.4):

   ____ (Place fs-9.10.4.tgz on /tmp)
   ____ cd /
   ____ tar xzf /tmp/fs-9.10.4.tgz
   ____ cd /usr2/fs-9.10.4
   ____ make install
   ____  (answer question "y")

8. Place appropriate refresh_secondary in /usr/local/sbin, as "root",
   using "hdc" or "sdb" for "XXX" as appropriate for your system in
   the "cp" command:

   ____ cd /usr/local/sbin
   ____ cp -a /usr2/fs/misc/refresh_secondary.XXX refresh_secondary
   ____ chown root.root refresh_secondary
   ____ chmod a+r,u+wx,go-wx refresh_secondary

9. Place mdstat in /usr/local/bin, as "root":

   ____ cd /usr/local/bin
   ____ cp -a /usr2/fs/misc/mdstat.7 mdstat
   ____ chown root.root mdstat
   ____ chmod a+rx,u+w,go-w mdstat

10. Edit /etc/aliases so root and prog e-mail goes to oper, as "root":
   ____ change "root: testing" to "root: oper"
   ____ add "prog: oper" at the end
   ____ add "desktop: oper" at the end

11. Compile FS as "prog" on vt1  (<Ctrl><Alt><F1>):
    ____ cd /usr2/fs
    ____ make

12. Reboot
    ____ reboot

CUSTOMIZATION

After the standard system has been installed according to the
directions in the preceding section, the system will need to be
customized for your station.  The steps for this are covered in the
document FSL8_End_User.txt.  That document is intended primarily for
installers of new system that have been checked out at GSFC and then
shipped to the end user.  However, the steps are so similar that it is
useful for customization while upgrading a system or installing a new
system from scratch.  A few additional comments for upgrading systems
have been added enclosed in that document within square brackets "[]"
and indented.  The information and *.tgz archives (particularly, the
archive files) created in the PREPARATION section of this document
should prove useful in completing the customization.

POST INSTALLATION

After the customization is complete, you should test all the major
features of the FS and other operational software you have.  When you
are satisfied that everything is working and you no longer need your
old operational system on your third disk (if you have one), you
should update that disk so that it so that is also running FSL8.
Follow the direct for initializing a new disk in the REPLACEMENT DISKS
section of /usr2/fs/misc/RAID.pdf.
