File: /usr2/fs/misc/FSL9_Upgrade.txt  Version: 2.2  Date: 140805

		 Upgrading to FSL9 from a prior FSLx System

		    Ed Himwich and Jonathan Quick

INTRODUCTION

This document describes how to upgrade to FSL9 from a relatively
recent prior Field System Linux (FSLx, x=6, 7, 8) distribution.  It
also describes how to install FSL9 on a new computer (either as a
replacement or a completely new system).  For either case, the
FSL9_End_user.txt document should be used to complete and customize
the installation after the steps in this document.

If you are running an older revision than FSL6 on your computer, the
computer is probably approaching, or more than, 10 years old.  It may
be possible to upgrade such a computer, but even if it is possible,
the reliability of such a computer is highly questionable.  We
encourage replacement such a computer rather than upgrading it.

For most standard computers being upgraded or new computers being
installed these instructions should be sufficient.  The more a system
being upgraded differs from a standard system, the more likely that
some important step will be missing.  However it is likely that the
more a system being upgraded differs from the standard, the more
knowledgeable, and therefore able to handle discrepancies, the local
Field System "friend" would be.  The instructions try to anticipate
some places where additional steps and information may be needed for
non-standard systems.  It is likely that non-standard systems will be
that way because additional packages and software have been added, not
because something has been removed.  Please note that in order to make
these instructions as foolproof as possible, they are written in a
general way that may not be the most efficient.  Other more expedient
methods may be possible.  If you have problems or questions, please
contact Ed (Ed.Himwich@nasa.gov).

Computers with less than 6 GB (each) hard disks, 256 MB RAM, or ISA
peripheral cards are not supported by FSL9.  Stations with computers
that are not supported by FSL9 should consider upgrading their
computers and/or installing an inexpensive firewall/router to protect
their older (now obsolete systems) from network attacks.

For reference, this history of FSL distributions is:

  FS Linux 1                       Slackware     Linux 1.2.x    1994
  FS Linux 2     "bo"              Debian 1.3.1  Linux 2.0.29   1997
  FS Linux 3     "hamm"            Debian 2.0    Linux 2.0.34   1998
                 "slink"           Debian 2.1    Linux 2.0.36   1999
  FS Linux 4     "potato"          Debian 2.2    Linux 2.2.18   2000
  FS Linux 5     "woody"           Debian 3.0    Linux 2.2.20   2002
                                                 Linux 2.4.18
  FS Linux 6     "sarge"           Debian 3.1    Linux 2.4.27   2005
  FS Linux 7     "etch"            Debian 4.0    Linux 2.6.18   2007
  FS Linux 8     "lenny"           Debian 5.0    Linux 2.6.26   2009
  FS Linux 9     "wheezy"          Debian 7.6    Linux 3.2.0    2014

The remainder of this document is broken into four sections.  The
PREPARATION section describes information that you should collect that
will make the rest of the process easier.  This includes both system
parameters and *.tgz archives of critical files.  The INSTALLATION
section describes the actual installation of FSL9, the fsadapt sysadm
utility, and FS to create a base standard system.  The CUSTOMIZATION
section points you to additional documentation for completing the
process of installing the system so that it includes your local files
and configuration.  The POST INSTALLATION section describes the final
clean-up after the installation and testing are finished.

PREPARATION

The section covers steps that will help prepare you for the installation..

1. Obtain Debian 7.6 (or later) DVDs/CDs

   Information on how to obtain the Debian DVDs/CDs can be found at 

     http://www.debian.org/distrib/

   You can use DVDs or CDs.  Using the netinst CD is recommended if
   you have a good Internet connection.  If not, using DVDs instead of
   the CDs has the advantage that fewer disc are required.  However
   they are much larger to transfer as files if downloaded for local
   burning.  What media you chose effects how you will set-up
   /etc/apt/sources.list in Step 4 of the Second Stage installation in
   fsl9_DVD.txt.  A rough guide to the media to use is:

   A. Fast Internet connection: Get and use netinst CD and make sure
      CD references are commented out of sources.list.

   B. Slow Internet connection: Get and use first 3 DVDs and put web
      references at bottom of sources.list.

   C. For fewer lengthy DVD downloads use just DVD-1 in (B) above, but
      then you don't have local copy in case of Internet connection
      loss.

   E. No Internet connection: 3 DVDs, but you will be missing the PGPLOT
      package for plotlog.

   F. No internet and only a CD player (no DVD player): use CDs instead of
      DVDs in (E) above

2. Collect System Information

   In order to upgrade or install, you will need to know the following
   information.  For computers being upgraded or replaced, a
   suggestion for how to obtain the information is provided.  For new
   computers for new stations, the basic information in only sections
   (2A) and (2B) is required, but you will need to determine the
   information by other means including possibly consulting local
   experts.

   A. Collect network parameters if you have a network connection

      If you are replacing a computer, some of these parameters will
      be different for your new computer, so be sure to get the values
      for the new computer.  If you are installing on a new computer,
      you may want to get advice from a local expert.

      Hostname ___________________________
        more /etc/hostname <CR> or uname -n <CR>

      Domain   ___________________________
        hostname --domain <CR> or
        more /etc/resolv.conf <CR>, look for "search" line

      Network interface device  ________________________
        more /etc/network/interfaces <CR> and look at appropriate line

      IP address __________________________ 
        see above

      Netmask   ___________________________
        see above

      Broadcast address: ______________________
        see above

      Network Gateway ______________________________
        see above

      DNS servers   _______________________________
       more /etc/resolv.conf <CR>, look for "nameserver" lines

      nearest (in a network sense) Debian mirror server _____________________
        for example, see: http://www.debian.org/mirror/list

      alternate older methods to find some of the information:
        route -n < CR > and look for "Iface" field in the line starting 0.0.0.0
 
        ifconfig eth0 < CR > (where "eth0" is network interface device
        from above) and look for "inet addr" field

        see above "ifconfig" output and look for "Mask" field
        see above "ifconfig" output and look for "Bcast" field
        route -n < CR > and look for the "Gateway" field in the line
        starting with 0.0.0.0

   B. Other required hardware information:

      Serial Card Information ( mark appropriate box for latter use.)
        [ ] 4-port VSCom (ByteRunner) 400H
        [ ] 8-port VSCom (ByteRunner) 800H
        [ ] other ____________________________________
        [ ] none
        examine card 

      GPIB device
        [ ] PCI-GPIB card
        [ ] GPIB-RS232
        [ ] NI-USB
        [ ] other _____________________________________
        [ ] none
        examine card/device (PCI-GPIB card and NI-USB use NI or LLP
          GPIB driver)

   C. Additional information that may be helpful to know, if
      applicable.  This section is only useful if you are upgrading or
      replacing a computer.

      Serial ports used by card on old system __________
        For FSL7 and later (logged-in as root):
          grep ttyS /var/log/dmesg
        or for FSL6 or earlier
          setserial -g /dev/ttyS*
          and examine the output, usually 0-3 are on the motherboard, not
          on the serial card, which are typically start at 4 or 16

      Old system Linux version __________
        uname -r <CR>
          or
        cat /proc/version <CR>      

      Old system Debian version (if Debian) _________
        cat /etc/debian_version <CR>

      Information in local files, but this will be saved in Step 3 by
        making the "etc.tgz" archives.  This includes:

        NTP servers, usually in /etc/ntp.conf or /etc/init.d/xntp3
  
        SSH keys, usually in *key *_key.pub files in /etc/ssh

        Printers, usually in /etc/printcap or in /etc/cups/*,

        /etc/hosts file listed "hosts"

        /etc/hosts.deny and /etc/hosts.allow configuration

        Customizations of the oper and prog home directories.

        Customizations of FS control and procedure files, and locally
        used SNAP schedules.

        Local station software (/usr2/st).

      Additional Debian packages loaded beyond standard FSLx packages
        Obtain from local experts

      Additional directory structures not normally found on FS
      computers.
        Obtain from local experts and/or may be visible on /usr2 with
        names other than: control, log, sched, oper, proc, prog, fs*,
        and st*

3. Collect files to be transferred to the new system

   This step is intended only for stations that are upgrading or
   replacing an existing computer.

   The instructions for this process can be found in the
   FSL9_End_User.txt customization document, Step 1.  That procedure
   will create a few *.tgz files that can be used to ease the
   customization process.  Stations that are installing a replacement
   computer (that doesn't re-use the existing PC system hardware), can
   wait to do this step as part of the End User customization.  For
   new computers for new stations there would typically be no files to
   collect.

   Please note that if you are upgrading a computer with a single
   disk, i.e. no back-up disk, it is particularly important that you
   verify the integrity and contents of the the *.tgz files before
   overwriting the disk (the only working version) in the installation
   process.

INSTALLATION

This section outlines the detailed steps for the installation.  Spaces
are included to check-off each step as it is completed.

1. Before beginning the installation procedure, you will need to
   determine how many and which disks to upgrade initially (i.e.,
   according to this INSTALLATION section).
   
   ___ If you have disks of different sizes, you should be sure to
       include the smallest disk as one of the disks that you upgrade
       initially.  This will assure that the RAID size will be correct
       for all the disks.  If your smallest disk is your current
       operational disk, you should perform a disk rotation (see
       RAID.pdf in /usr2/fs/misc) to make sure that one of your larger
       disks is up to date and use it as the "shelf" disk as described
       next.

   ___ If you have more than one disk, you should remove the current
       active operational disk (not your smallest disk, see above) and
       save it "on the shelf" in case you need to return to your old
       system or need to retrieve a file that was forgotten.

   ___ There are three cases:

       (A) Three or more disks available.  Insert two of your disks,
           including your smallest, but not including your current
           operational, disk.  If you have more than three disks, you
           can make a back-up of the old operational disk on one of
           the additional disks for safety, but this is not necessary.

       (B) Two disks available.  Insert your smallest, but not your
           current operational, disk.  In this case you should install
           FSL9 on only the one disk, instead of the normal two.  You
           will need to modify the DVD installation instructions to
           use one disk instead of two.  These changes are described
           in Step 2 below.

       (C) One disk available.  You will be unable to retain your
           current operational disk "on the shelf" as a backup in case
           of problems.  It is better to obtain more disks before
           continuing, but if you are unable to do this you can
           upgrade the single disk.  You should be careful to verify
           the saved *.tgz files are not corrupt and contain all the
           files you need.  It would be prudent to make other more
           complete back-ups if that is reasonably easy to do.

2. Install FSL9/fsadapt/FS from Debian 7.6 (or later) CDs (or DVDs)
   using the instructions found at:

   ____  ftp://ftp.hartrao.ac.za/pub/fs9x/fsl9_DVD.txt

   The information you collected in the preceding section should be
   useful in this process.  Do not turn off installation of the
   Desktop Environment when that is offered unless you have a very
   small disk.  Be sure to include the SSH server unless you know you
   don't want it.  It is also recommended that you NOT delete the
   desktop user if you installed the Desktop Environment..

   Your choice of Debian installation media will affect how you set-up
   /etc/apt/sources.list in Step 4 of the Second Stage installation.
   Please see item #1 in the PREPARATION section of this document for
   more details.

   If you are using only one disk for the upgrade (cases (B) and (C)
   in Step 1 above), you will need to modify the installation
   instructions slightly.  The four needed differences, listed by
   installation stage (1 or 2) and steps (n) in a format of
   "stage#step", are:

     1#10 Omit setting up the second disk.

     1#12 Omit this step (configuring the second disk partitions).

     1#13 Set-up the MD devices as indicated, but you will select only
          the one disk device (/dev/hdaX, X=2,3,4 or /dev/sdbX,
          X=1,5,6) for each MD device.  This works in spite of the
          on-screen instructions insisting that you must select two
          disk devices for each MD device.

     2#11 Be sure to use this step (installing GRUB on the second
          disk).  It will however fail on the second disk (since there
          isn't one), but is necessary to set-up grub correctly.

   These differences, except the last, are also noted in the "DVD"
   installation instructions.

3. Place appropriate refresh_secondary in /usr/local/sbin, as "root",
   using "sd156" or "sd234" for "XXXXX" as appropriate for your system
   in the "cp" command:

   ____ cd /usr/local/sbin
   ____ cp -a /usr2/fs/misc/refresh_secondary.XXXXX refresh_secondary
   ____ chown root.root refresh_secondary
   ____ chmod a+r,u+wx,go-wx refresh_secondary

4. Place mdstat in /usr/local/bin, as "root":

   ____ cd /usr/local/bin
   ____ cp -a /usr2/fs/misc/mdstat.7 mdstat
   ____ chown root.root mdstat
   ____ chmod a+rx,u+w,go-w mdstat

5. Edit /etc/aliases so root, prog, and desktop e-mail goes to oper, as "root":

   ____ change "root: desktop" to "root: oper"
   ____ add "prog: oper" at the end
   ____ add "desktop: oper" at the end


CUSTOMIZATION

After the standard system has been installed according to the
directions in the preceding section, the system will need to be
customized for your station.  The steps for this are covered in the
document FSL9_End_User.txt.  That document is intended primarily for
installers of a new computer that has been checked out at GSFC and
then shipped to the end user.  However, the steps are so similar that
they are also useful for customization when installing according to
this document.  A few additional comments for upgraded and replacement
computers have been added enclosed in that document within square
brackets "[]" and indented.  The information and *.tgz archives
(particularly, the archive files) created in the PREPARATION section
of this document should prove useful in completing the customization.

POST INSTALLATION

After the customization is complete, you should test all the major
features of the FS and other operational software you have.  When you
are satisfied that everything is working and you no longer need your
old operational system on your third disk (if you have one), you
should update that disk so that it so that is also running FSL9.
Follow the directions for initializing a new disk in the REPLACEMENT
DISKS section of FSL9_RAID.pdf in /usr2/fs/misc/ directory.
