File: /usr2/fs/misc/target_time.txt       Version: 0.2  Date: 130926

			  target_time command

The "target_time=..." command provides the time the antenna should be
settled on the source before a scan begins.  It is intended only for
stations that can implement a variable slewing speed for their antenna
so that it will settled on the source "just in time", with some
additional antenna dependent small margin of cushion.  The
"target_time" command is a local station implemented command only.

Use of he "target_time" command is enabled for experiment .snp files
if the TARGET_TIME keyword is set to "ON" in /usr2/control/skedf.ctl.
Please see /usr2/fs/st.default/skedf.ctl for an example.  If it is
enabled, DRUDG will insert a "target_time=TIME" command in the .snp
file between each "scan_name=..." and "source=..."  command pair.  The
"TIME" is the time the antenna is expected to be fully on source in FS
time format (yyyy.ddd.hh:mm:ss).

The following are recommendations for the local implementation of this
command:

1. The "target_time" value should be stored in local station shared
   memory or can be stored internally in antcn.  In the latter case,
   the command can use a "mode" reserved for station dependent use,
   for this: modes 100 - 32767 to transmit the value in a class
   buffer.

2. The command "target_time=" (null parameter) should set the target
   time to null.

3. The command "target_time" (no parameters) should log the current
   target as a normal log display entry, e.g.,

     (time tag)/target_time/yyyy.ddd.hh:mm:ss

   where the displayed value (yyyy.ddd.hh:mm:ss) would be empty if the
   value is null.

4. When the FS is started, the target time value should be initialized
   to null.  This can be done in antcn's initialization phase (mode
   0).

5. When a "source=..." command is given (antcn mode 1), the antenna
   should slew as fast as possible to the source if any of the
   following are true:

   A. The target time is null.

   B. The target time is in the past.

   C. The source being commanded is a different source than the first
      source commanded after the target time was last set.  In this
      case, the stored target time should be set to null as well.

6. Otherwise the antenna should slew to the source to arrive "just in
   time."  Please note that enough speed should be used so that the
   antenna has fully settled on the source by the target time, with
   some cushion.

7. It is recommended that a "/usr2/st/help/target_time.___" file be
   created with help information for use with the help command.

The conditions in (5) are chosen so that during a schedule the antenna
will normally slew just in time, but for other purposes (pointing
checks, manual tests), the antenna will by _default_ slew quickly to
the target.  They also allow the source to be re-commanded manually if
necessary by operator (source=*,*,*,*,*) before a scan starts and
still take full advantage of the target time value.  For experimemts
that use phase-referencing the target will be set to null for scans
during continuous tape motion to get the antenna onsource as soon as
possible.

